# The Pantheon / The "Old Gods"

"The Pantheon" is the general label, alongside the slightly more derogatory "Old Gods", to refer to the pantheon of gods that are thought to have created the Eldar in the first place. The Pantheon of divinities are thought to be distantly observing the progress of the world, though whether in judgment or keen interest is not clear. The Gods have made no presence felt in Azgaarnoth in recorded history, although the clerics who worship them receive spells and (according to those clerics) guidance, suggesting that the Pantheon is every bit as real as the Eldar were (or are).

Each member of the Pantheon has sway over a particular domain, and while some have a wide number of followers, others seem to be more obscure and only known to a few. While most of the Pantheon is fundamentally of a "good" cosmic perspective, whispers of "evil" gods are always present, and if these gods exist, their worshippers (and temples and ceremonies) are buried deep in society. This is not to say the evil gods do not exist--they simply are not worshipped openly. (Ugly rumors persist that the [Dread Emperor](/People/DreadEmperor.md) has offered a home to many of the darker or more evil Pantheonic religions, in exchange for their service to his throne, but nothing has been proven, and certainly the Dread Emperor himself will not say.) 

It's important to note that many theologians in Azgaarnoth are convinced that many of the old gods worshipped as separate entities are, in fact, different facets of the same entity, such as Baravar Cloakshadow (gnomish goddes of illusion and deception) and Brandovaris (halfling god of adventure and thievry) are actually both facets of the same trickster god. If this were true, it could suggest that far fewer old gods actually exist, but clerics of each god/goddess keep having their prayers answered; presumably only the old gods themselves know the truth, and they're not telling. Because of the many overlaps, it is not uncommon for non-clerical devotees of a god to find themselves workshipping alongside others of like mind, even if the god/goddess has different names.

Unlike other realms, the old gods do not openly war in the heavens with one another, at least not within sight of mortals. The work of the old gods is entirely through mortal hands. Godly avatars, even, do not walk the hills of Azgaarnoth, leading many theologians to posit that godly direct intervention is forbidden in Azgaarnoth, possibly as part of the Compact signed with the fiends when they were exiled from the world long before mortal lifespans begun. Even among the old gods themselves, however, they tend not to move in direct opposition to one another--the open battles of the gods in Faerun, for example, do not happen in Azgaarnoth. If blight strikes a farming village, it is due to natural factors, and not a battle waged in a war between the gods/goddesses of agriculture and disease. (Now, it certainly could be due to something else, such as the actions of a cell of the [WrymCult](/Organizations/CultOfTheWyrm.md) or perhaps even a cleric of a death god has chosen to raise undead--but those actions are those of mortals, not the gods/goddesses themselves.) The gods and goddesses might encourage their worshippers to engage in particular acts, and those acts might serve to advance the cause while working against the cause of an oppositional god or goddess, but always these are the actions of mortals. Open warfare amongst the old gods is strictly forbidden. (By whom, it is not clear.)

Most Pantheon worship is decentralized, with scattered temples and buildings across Azgaarnoth, usually close to the physical expression of the god's domain. Some temples consist of the home of a cleric living within a village, or a concrete building attended by villagers on a regular basis; it depends greatly on the domain, the cleric, and the village.

Becoming a cleric of a Pantheon god (often known as being a "Patheonite") is usually a matter of finding an existing cleric willing to take on an apprentice/acolyte, then engaging in study and worship, and if the god finds the individual worthy, that individual finds "the god's voice" and hears the call of the god's wishes for the future.

