# Miltiant Order: Pact of the Ring
All warlocks who swear this pact wear a simple loop of dark, crystalline iron as a symbol of their station and power.

The pact's chief practitioners are the Warlock Knights of [Curvaulle](../../Cities/Curvaulle.md), spellcasting noble elites of that city's brutal, slave-based (only taken from the [Ulmhorde](../../Nations/Ulm.md), of course) feudal system. Their warped knightly order is based on an otherworldly being, a colossus known as Telos that supposedly fell onto [Curvaulle](../../Cities/Curvaulle.md), who serves as the patron of their pacts. Little is known of Telos's nature, though recent rumors state this being once had a hateful rivalry with a now-dead god known as Seriach, the Hell-Hound Whisperer (and some say a vestige of Seriach seduces renegade Warlock Knights to make new pacts, with the Whisperer as their patron). The [Curvaulle](../../Cities/Curvaulle.md)an lords harvest a substance called ironfell from Telos's body. It is hard as steel when worked, though more crystalline in structure and duller in luster. It is from ironfell that [Curvaulle](../../Cities/Curvaulle.md)'s Warlock Knights forge their pact rings.

Warlock Knights are chosen from among the most ruthless and capable in [Dradehalia](../../Nations/Dradehalia.md). A few titles have passed hereditarily, but only to heirs who have demonstrated their worthiness. Their hierarchy is loosely based on common feudal traditions. Knights without land are known as Executors, and these petty nobles serve as emissaries, spies, soldiers, and assassins for greater Warlock Knights. Landed knights, also known as Fellthanes, have absolute power over their holdings and maintain private armies. They are vassals to more powerful figures known as Vindicators. The greatest vindicators make up the Ironfell Council, which revolves around the Voice of Telos.
