# Order of the Steel Dragon
Leader: MasterSmith (Lord) Ironhand Glowforge

The Steels are the artificers, because not all of what determines the outcome of the battle will happen on the battlefield; he who comes with the better axe and chain, she who comes with the better mace and shield, not only wins the battle, but lives to win the war. Like their namesakes, the Steels are amiable, curious, and witty, constantly looking for new ways to improve their craft and the materials they provide to the Orders. 
 
Members of the Steel Order are generally artisans, crafters, and forgers, across all the various skills and crafts. Bowyers, smiths, weapons, are obvious skills embraced by the Steels, but so are weavers, barrel-makers, and vintners. Even arts and painting finds a home inside the Steel Order, as one never knows exactly how a craft could be used to further the cause; just as a flag can rally an army to war, a painting or a sculpture can remind a populace of its pride during dark times. Steels are often heavily engaged with the [Merchant Guilds](../MerchantGuilds/Overview.md), allowing a slow trickle of their fine workmanship to earn monetary profits for the Order to support its various chapterhouses and overhead. (This also provides a convenient avenue for members of the [Order of the Copper Dragon](Copper.md) to slip out into the world, as trading agents for the Steels.)
 
Steels generally get along well with all of the other Orders, and in particular enjoy the company of the [Order of the Brass Dragon](Brass.md); it is not uncommon to see a Steel and Brass engaged in long-winded discussion about history and its applicability to art or manufacture, or the history of manufacturing itself. Steels tend to dislike absolute authority, however, even when wielded for good, and so while they have a working relationship with the [Order of the Gold Dragon](Gold.md), they tend not to prefer their company.

## Membership
Steels are craftspeople, and as such accept anyone within their ranks, particularly if they are dedicated to the production of something useful, beautiful, or both. Dwarves are frequently drawn to join the Order (sometimes on sabbatical from a merchant guild/clan), as do elves (and their love of working with the wood of the forest). Dragonborn are less often members, generally preferring action in the field over manufacture in the chapterhouse. A few halflings manage vast fields to grow food (and, yes, beer) for the Order, although the senior leaders of the Steels sometimes turn away in smiles when a halfling member reports a "wee slippage" in food production around their birthday.

## Leader profile: Lord Ironhand Glowforge
Dwarf Fighter 5, LG

Lord Ironhand Glowforge, formerly known as Morthen Glowforge, the current MasterSmith of the Order of the Steel Dragon, is called such for obvious reasons: his entire lower right arm is made of dwarven adamantium, magically replacing the half-arm he lost in combat years ago while serving in the [Order of the Silver Dragon](Silver.md). He generally doesn't really talk about it, but the legend is known widely among the Orders and he doesn't mind others telling it: He lost the arm in combat with the current Precentor Martial of the [Order of the Gold Dragon](Gold.md), Lord Aftenish Tamarand, while the pair were facing off against an adult red dragon. The two battled the wyrm for hours; when Aftenish stumbled from a vicious claw-rake from the wyrm, Morthen raised his shield to defend them both from the dragon's breath weapon. The fire melted his shield and charred his arm, but gave Aftenish the time to recover. When the dragon finally paused, convinced it had roasted both to cinders, Aftenish sprang past his Silver partner, struck the beast a critical blow, and ended the dragon's life. Despite immediate attempts to heal the charred remnants of his arm, Morthen would never again hold a shield.
 
When the master forgers of the Steel Order heard of the valiant dwarf, they immediately set to work with the best healers of the Silvers and the best researchers of the [Order of the Brass Dragon](Brass.md) to determine how to make the artifact "Ironhand" now bears. It grants him greater strength and finer muscle control than he ever had, and he swore to return the favor by returning to his dwarven roots and crafting the best weapons and mail the Order could ever require. He routinely looks for ways to create similar artifacts for all members of the Order, and from his forge has come some amazing items in use all across the Draconic Orders.

