# Firstborn
These are called such because they are those born of the [Eldar](Eldar.md) themselves, or so it is thought. Broadly speaking, these are the elves and dwarves and their respective offshoots. They all tend to live much longer than [humans](Humans.md), but also reproduce much more slowly.

## [Elves](Elves.md)
Elves stand as the inheritors of the legacy of the Eldar, but owing to their long lifespans and slow reproductive rates, have more or less chosen to surrender this world into the hands of the humans that have slowly come to outnumber them. Elves have long since wandered to every corner of Azgaarnoth, and learned how to adapt to any environment, usually seeking to live in some semblance of harmony with the environment around them, but elves have long since become comfortable with human cities. Elves are almost as diverse as humans in their occupations, entertainments, and while most elves have a strong familial tie between them, numerous elves have wandered away from home to make their mark within the world, then to return and take up familial responsibilities. Elves revere their familial ancestors, and will often have a shrine to a favored ancestor, but elves do not see their familial ancestors as gods, and many elves are quite comfortable serving in a religious order even as they put offerings to their revered ancestors out on important holidays.



## [Dwarves](Dwarves.md)
Dwarves, for the most part, have found, after the Exodus and several attempted Returns, that they care less about governance and governments as they do mining, craftwork, and trade. The ancient dwarvish clan gave rise to the modern merchant guild, and today most dwarvish clans are organized as merchant guilds (rather than kingdoms), giving them access across national boundaries. This suits the dwarves fine, who for the most part eschew the politics that have kept Liria and its neighbors embroiled for many years. Individual dwarves are welcome in mercenary companies, militant orders, and religious halls, particularly those who have either left or been cast out of clan-and-guild, but returns to clan-and-guild after a long career are commonplace, particularly if the returning dwarf brings opportunities for trade. Dwarves have reached a point where the sense of "clan" is built around the guild, and dwarves choosing to leave one guild to join another are not uncommon; for the modern dwarf, guild ties are stronger than familial ties in most cases.


## [Gnomes](Gnomes.md)
Thought to be an ancient offshoot of the dwarves, gnomes have long since forged their own culture and racial identity. What is known is that by the time of the Exodus, gnomes were a separate and identifiable race, and gnomish tribes fought and fled alongside dwarvish clans, implying a deep degree of societal interactivity, if not a shared genetic legacy.
 
Gnomes, like dwarves, have taken to the merchant guilds, but still maintain strong familial ties. A gnome is often welcome in a dwarvish merchant guild, but dwarves will never completely understand why gnomes feel bound to continue to maintain connections with family outside the guild; conversely, gnomes never quite understand how dwarves can abandon kin so quickly in the name of profit or trade.


## [Halflings](Halflings.md)
The genetic legacy of halflings is entirely unknown--scholars theorize that these are ancient half-human, half-dwarf breeds that have evolved into their own genetic trunk, and said scholars support this with the fact that while humans and halflings can have children, and halflings and dwarves can have children, humans and dwarves seem incapable of conception. Halflings are mentioned nowhere in the slim records of the Exodus, which also gives credence to this theory. Counterarguments suggest that halflings were an offshoot of dwarves that predate the Exodus and adapted more quickly to life on the surface, and thus were not mentioned in Exodus records because they had long since conducted their own, quieter, exodus. For the most part, halflings are content to leave the history a mystery, and choose instead to focus on the now. Regardless of their origins, halflings maintain the "luck" factor that has served them so well in other planes of existence, and may well explain why halfling history is missing so many of the tragedies that have befallen other races.
 
Halflings are generally tied closely to their communities, and while communities are often built around a small collection of large family structures, it's not unknown for halflings to feel cramped by the community in which they were raised, go out on their own, and either create a new halfling community or adopt into one. Halflings are generally quite social, enjoy the company of any of the other races, and fiercely defensive of their communities (both historical and adoptive).
